# [165.Compare Version Numbers](https://leetcode.com/problems/compare-version-numbers/description/)

## Description

**Tags**: string

**Companies**: apple,microsoft

|  Category  |   Difficulty    | Likes | Dislikes |
| :--------: | :-------------: | :---: | :------: |
| algorithms | Medium (36.60%) | 2076  |   2551   |

<p>Given two version numbers,&nbsp;<code>version1</code> and <code>version2</code>, compare them.</p>
<ul>
</ul>
<p>Version numbers consist of <strong>one or more revisions</strong> joined by a dot&nbsp;<code>&#39;.&#39;</code>. Each revision&nbsp;consists of <strong>digits</strong>&nbsp;and may contain leading <strong>zeros</strong>. Every revision contains <strong>at least one character</strong>. Revisions are <strong>0-indexed from left to right</strong>, with the leftmost revision being revision 0, the next revision being revision 1, and so on. For example&nbsp;<code>2.5.33</code>&nbsp;and&nbsp;<code>0.1</code>&nbsp;are valid version numbers.</p>
<p>To compare version numbers, compare their revisions in <strong>left-to-right order</strong>. Revisions are compared using their&nbsp;<strong>integer value ignoring any leading zeros</strong>. This means that revisions&nbsp;<code>1</code>&nbsp;and&nbsp;<code>001</code>&nbsp;are considered&nbsp;<strong>equal</strong>. If a version number does not specify a revision at an index, then&nbsp;<strong>treat the revision as&nbsp;<code>0</code></strong>. For example, version&nbsp;<code>1.0</code> is less than version&nbsp;<code>1.1</code>&nbsp;because their revision 0s are the same, but their revision 1s are&nbsp;<code>0</code>&nbsp;and&nbsp;<code>1</code>&nbsp;respectively, and&nbsp;<code>0 &lt; 1</code>.</p>
<p><em>Return the following:</em></p>
<ul>
  <li>If <code>version1 &lt; version2</code>, return <code>-1</code>.</li>
  <li>If <code>version1 &gt; version2</code>, return <code>1</code>.</li>
  <li>Otherwise, return <code>0</code>.</li>
</ul>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<pre><code><strong>Input:</strong> version1 = &quot;1.01&quot;, version2 = &quot;1.001&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> 0
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Ignoring leading zeroes, both &quot;01&quot; and &quot;001&quot; represent the same integer &quot;1&quot;.</code></pre>
<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<pre><code><strong>Input:</strong> version1 = &quot;1.0&quot;, version2 = &quot;1.0.0&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> 0
<strong>Explanation:</strong> version1 does not specify revision 2, which means it is treated as &quot;0&quot;.</code></pre>
<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>
<pre><code><strong>Input:</strong> version1 = &quot;0.1&quot;, version2 = &quot;1.1&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> -1
<strong>Explanation:</strong> version1&#39;s revision 0 is &quot;0&quot;, while version2&#39;s revision 0 is &quot;1&quot;. 0 &lt; 1, so version1 &lt; version2.</code></pre>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= version1.length, version2.length &lt;= 500</code></li>
  <li><code>version1</code> and <code>version2</code>&nbsp;only contain digits and <code>&#39;.&#39;</code>.</li>
  <li><code>version1</code> and <code>version2</code>&nbsp;<strong>are valid version numbers</strong>.</li>
  <li>All the given revisions in&nbsp;<code>version1</code> and <code>version2</code>&nbsp;can be stored in&nbsp;a&nbsp;<strong>32-bit integer</strong>.</li>
</ul>

## Solution

**题目描述**

比较两个版本号。

**解题思路**

1. 每次对应取出相同位置的小数点之前所有的字符，把他们转为数字比较，若不同则可直接得到答案，若相同，再对应往下取。如果一个数字已经没有小数点了，则默认取出为 0，和另一个比较。
2. 借助 stringstream 实现分段和转为整数。

**测试用例**

- 无效 0，比如 01
- 前导 0，比如 1.01 和 1.0001
- 后导 0，比如 1.01.0.0.0

