# [722.Remove Comments](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-comments/description/)

## Description

**Tags**: string

**Companies**: microsoft

|  Category  |   Difficulty    | Likes | Dislikes |
| :--------: | :-------------: | :---: | :------: |
| algorithms | Medium (38.34%) |  662  |   1718   |

<p>Given a C++ program, remove comments from it. The program source is an array of strings <code>source</code> where <code>source[i]</code> is the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> line of the source code. This represents the result of splitting the original source code string by the newline character <code>&#39;\n&#39;</code>.</p>
<p>In C++, there are two types of comments, line comments, and block comments.</p>
<ul>
  <li>The string <code>&quot;//&quot;</code> denotes a line comment, which represents that it and the rest of the characters to the right of it in the same line should be ignored.</li>
  <li>The string <code>&quot;/*&quot;</code> denotes a block comment, which represents that all characters until the next (non-overlapping) occurrence of <code>&quot;*/&quot;</code> should be ignored. (Here, occurrences happen in reading order: line by line from left to right.) To be clear, the string <code>&quot;/*/&quot;</code> does not yet end the block comment, as the ending would be overlapping the beginning.</li>
</ul>
<p>The first effective comment takes precedence over others.</p>
<ul>
  <li>For example, if the string <code>&quot;//&quot;</code> occurs in a block comment, it is ignored.</li>
  <li>Similarly, if the string <code>&quot;/*&quot;</code> occurs in a line or block comment, it is also ignored.</li>
</ul>
<p>If a certain line of code is empty after removing comments, you must not output that line: each string in the answer list will be non-empty.</p>
<p>There will be no control characters, single quote, or double quote characters.</p>
<ul>
  <li>For example, <code>source = &quot;string s = &quot;/* Not a comment. */&quot;;&quot;</code> will not be a test case.</li>
</ul>
<p>Also, nothing else such as defines or macros will interfere with the comments.</p>
<p>It is guaranteed that every open block comment will eventually be closed, so <code>&quot;/*&quot;</code> outside of a line or block comment always starts a new comment.</p>
<p>Finally, implicit newline characters can be deleted by block comments. Please see the examples below for details.</p>
<p>After removing the comments from the source code, return <em>the source code in the same format</em>.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<pre><code><strong>Input:</strong> source = [&quot;/*Test program */&quot;, &quot;int main()&quot;, &quot;{ &quot;, &quot;  // variable declaration &quot;, &quot;int a, b, c;&quot;, &quot;/* This is a test&quot;, &quot;   multiline  &quot;, &quot;   comment for &quot;, &quot;   testing */&quot;, &quot;a = b + c;&quot;, &quot;}&quot;]
<strong>Output:</strong> [&quot;int main()&quot;,&quot;{ &quot;,&quot;  &quot;,&quot;int a, b, c;&quot;,&quot;a = b + c;&quot;,&quot;}&quot;]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The line by line code is visualized as below:
/*Test program */
int main()
{
  // variable declaration
int a, b, c;
/* This is a test
   multiline
   comment for
   testing */
a = b + c;
}
The string /* denotes a block comment, including line 1 and lines 6-9. The string // denotes line 4 as comments.
The line by line output code is visualized as below:
int main()
{

int a, b, c;
a = b + c;
}</code></pre>
<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<pre><code><strong>Input:</strong> source = [&quot;a/*comment&quot;, &quot;line&quot;, &quot;more_comment*/b&quot;]
<strong>Output:</strong> [&quot;ab&quot;]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The original source string is &quot;a/*comment\nline\nmore_comment*/b&quot;, where we have bolded the newline characters.  After deletion, the implicit newline characters are deleted, leaving the string &quot;ab&quot;, which when delimited by newline characters becomes [&quot;ab&quot;].</code></pre>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= source.length &lt;= 100</code></li>
  <li><code>0 &lt;= source[i].length &lt;= 80</code></li>
  <li><code>source[i]</code> consists of printable <strong>ASCII</strong> characters.</li>
  <li>Every open block comment is eventually closed.</li>
  <li>There are no single-quote or&nbsp;double-quote in the input.</li>
</ul>

## Solution

**题目描述**

给定一段程序代码，其中包含注释。编写一个函数，将代码中的注释删除，并返回不包含注释的新代码。

注意，注释有两种形式，一种是行注释，一种是块注释。行注释以 `//` 开头，表示从 `//` 开始到行尾的内容都是注释，块注释以 `/*` 开头，以 `*/` 结尾，表示从 `/*` 开始到 `*/` 结束的内容都是注释。如果 `/*` 后面没有 `*/` ，则 `/*` 后面的内容都是注释。两种注释会出现遮盖，即 `/*` 后面的 `//` 不是注释， `//` 后面的 `*/` 也不是注释。

**解题思路**

1. 字符串处理
   - 逐行遍历给定的代码字符串。
   - 使用状态变量来跟踪当前是否在注释块中。
   - 对于每一行，根据注释的起始和结束标记，将注释部分删除或保留行中的非注释部分。
   - 将处理后的行连接起来形成新的代码字符串。
   - 时间复杂度：$O(N)$ ，其中 $N$ 是代码字符串的长度。

**标签**

- string
